It is clear to see that Argentina has a much higher GDP per capita than Venezuela, even when taking into account how high the GDP of Venezuela has skyrocketed recently. It also leads in life expectancy and population growth, as well as averaging more foreign assistance.
We see that, while Bolivia's life expectancy lags slightly behind Venezuela's, the amount that it brings in from foreign aid is magnitudes larger, leading to more economic stability than Venezuela. Missing migration data means that more information is needed to make inferences.
Brazil has consistently held a higher GDP per capita, and in recent history a higher life expectancy too. For all of that, there isn't as much migration compared to the likes of Colombia and Peru. This may be due to other factors such as crime or perceived stability coming into play.
Chile has a much lower GDP deflator, and its GDP per capita and life expectancy are vastly higher than Venezuela's, though foreign assistance has tapered off in the last couple of years. Still, it has been a consistently strong country in South America, along with Peru. This stability could explain why migrants are willing to travel so much farther to reach it than other nations such as Guyana.
The indicators show why Colombia has a large Venezuelan migrant crisis, especially given its total area and the magnitude of incoming migrants, and why it is a popular migration hotspot. Colombia's social and economic situation is stronger than Venezuela's current spot, and that combined with proximity creates strong pull factors.
Ecuador is in a similar spot to its neighbor, Colombia. However, being on the opposite side of Colombia as Venezuela, there isn't much reason to travel the extra distance and it has much less inflow than Colombia.
Being similar to or worse than Venezuela in the indicators (though with a markedly better GDP per capita and GDP deflator), combined with Venezuela's other proximal country, Colombia, being more appealing, it is not hard to see why they have less of a crisis than Colombia.
While it receives equal amounts of foreign aid, Peru has a higher GDP per capita and GDP deflator than Venezuela. This is indicitave of better socio-economic conditions within the country. It is not much further than Colombia, and a larger country than Ecuador, which causes many migrants to arrive.
The distance between Venezuela and countries on the southern end of the continent, such as Paraguay, make it more difficult for migrants to reach the country. It also neighbors Chile and Argentina, two powerhouses in South America. So, even though it appears to be doing better than Venezuela, there are less reasons to go here than anywhere else.
Suriname is across Guyana from Venezuela, and while it has a higher GDP per capita, the life expectancy and foreign aid are lower, making it less appealing. We cannot say much more, though, because of missing migration data.
There is not much interest in Uruguay, but still more than Paraguay, one of its closer neighbors. The higher life expectancy than Paraguay could have implications that this indicator contains information which migrants place a heavy weight on.
